Well we're just about ready to render out our scene.
We need to do a few tests though.
I've got my render presets here and the render panels got my render presets and I want to set this to
HDTV 720 P and that will give me this 12 HD by 720 resolution here.
And I want my percentage scale to be up to 100 percent.
I'm going to render out from one to frame 310 here and I want to render out individual frames.
I think it's important to render animation out in individual frames rather than rendering it out straight
to a quick time or Navy or something like that.
Mainly because that if you're doing it with frames if no I should say when when something goes wrong
when your computer crashes or something happens you don't lose the entire file.
Say if your computer crashes it frame a 120 you still have frames 1 through 119.
Then you can just reboot and begin again at frame 120 whereas if you're rendering out straight to movie
file like a quick time when it crashes the whole thing is gone and you have to begin again from the
beginning.
There are of course other reasons to use single frames when rendering out an animation in terms of compositing
things like that but we're not going to be getting into that in this particular course.
So in frame is going to be 310 we've got our frame rate here at 24 frames per second.
If I scroll down here we should set an output destination here.
Currently it's just going to a temp folder.
What I'd like to do is create a render frame's folder for these to go in.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on this open browser button and in my project here I'm going to go
ahead and create a new directory call it rendered frames and that's where I'm going to put all of my
frames and I'll click accept.
So now this output is going to that rendered frames folder.
I've got my file format at PMG now for the sampling.
Usually your preview is already set to 10 or 6 or something like that.
And this preview is what dictates how hard blender works to render your scene out in rendered viewport
shading.
But this field will dictate how hard blender works and rendering out your final frames.
I've got mine set up to 65 here.
Yours could be different in regards to how you want it to look but I'm going to try a sample of 65 here
and see how long it takes to render a frame as well as how good it looks because it's a balancing act
between quality and time spent.
My goal is to try and keep each frame under five minutes and at 310 frames that's going to be like 20
24 hours.
So that's still going to be a long time if I scroll down here to the light Papps.
You can see that you've got some different presets for limited global illumination for global illumination.
I am not going to touch this.
I'm going to leave these the way they are because turning on global illumination will just ramp up your
render times by by a lot.
It will help it look wonderful but it will also take a long time to render so you have to once again
balance that I've set my filter a glossy here under light paths to three.
And remember we've turned off Kostikov here.
I've set the filter glossy to three to try and reduce the number of those little fireflies sparkles
that can happen when using cycles.
So that's pretty much the way I have my render panel set up now.
So we're going to need to do some test Rynders to see how our scene looks at different points in the
animation from different camera angles.
And I usually like to set my display to a new window.
You can set your rendered stills to come out in the image editor.
But I like to have it overlaid as a new window here.
So to create a test render all we really need to do is just hit render and that will render out our
scene in a new window.
So let me play this.
I'm going to play it going forward here to maybe right about here so I can come over here and hit the
render button.
And a new window comes up and we can test our renders out like this.
And this will also give us a sense of how long the renders are taking.
So the one I did just a little bit ago came out to be four minutes and 23 seconds and that's under-five.
And that's what I'm trying to keep to so there's frame 95 that looks pretty good.
We can see our our jet thrusters we can see the cone of light coming down through the hole we can see
our sky image here.
It's looking pretty good.
I'm going to go ahead and save this out just so I can compare it to other tests.
I do.
I'm going to go to image save as image and I'll just put this on my desktop and I'll call this render
three.
Now since I've done a couple previously and saved that out so this is the process I'll go through several
other places in the scene and see how it looks.
And from that I'll do any tweaking that I need to do on textures lighting anything like that before
I begin the final render.
So let me do another render here.
So I'll hit play and let's take a look.
Maybe we can stop it right up in here and see how this looks.
So I'll hit render and wait another four and a half minutes or so.
And this render again took about four minutes 20 seconds.
So that's about right as I go forward.
I could begin playing with the sampling down here.
I could begin increasing this to get the Render to look a little cleaner a little better but once again
it would increase the render time.
So I'll have to test this.
I may try a render up to 100 and then maybe split the difference back down to 75 or something like that.
So I'm just as I said I'm trying to stay under five minutes for each frame.
So I think I'll go ahead and play it through again and this time I'm going to go up to the point where
he drops and the light turns on.
So there and then that should be it.
So I'm going to go ahead and render this up to see how this looks.
I'll go back up here and hit render.
Now here are a couple of issues I've discovered.
Undoing a test render one is that with the spotlight on it looks like the render time goes up to over
six minutes so I need to take that into consideration as well.
The other thing is that look at this back here you see this kind of box overlaid over the over the pillar.
This looks to me like it is the domain box for the jet thrusters.
So the volumetric lighting that's happening in the scene isn't working on those on those boxes.
So that's interesting.
I have not seen that before but I think we can fix that.
I don't I didn't see a problem when the jet thrusters were on.
So I think what we can do is turn or animate the render the restrict rendering option here.
So what I need to figure out is if I can actually animate the visibility of those domains in the scene.
So what I will have to do is see if I can animate the visibility of the scene in the render at the point
when the jet thrusters turn off so I can maybe remove them from the scene at that at that point.
So this is the kind of thing that test rendering brings to light.
So once were done with all of our tests and are ready to render out an animation we need to once again
make sure that our path is going to the proper place.
But then once that happens all we really need to do is just click animation
and it will begin rendering out the individual frames of our animation.
So now the first frame of our animation has gone ahead and rendered it only took a little under three
minutes since there isn't a whole lot in the scene at this point in time.
But now it's working on frame two and you can see it going through and updating the frame also in the
rendered frames folder you can see that it's placed a file called 0 0 0 or 1 in that folder and that
is our first frame of the animation.
So if I open this
there's our frame.
So now it's going to keep working on through every frame.
Once it's completely finished we can then take these frames into the video sequence.
Editor in Blender here and render out a final movie file like a quick time.